Slide 2

However, in the United States, nearly 40,000 people received diagnoses of HIV
infection in 2016,2 and more than 1 million persons are at substantial risk for
acquiring HIV.  

Although 1.1 million people in the United States are living with
HIV infection, 14.5% of whom have undiagnosed infection;4 most HIV-infected
persons do not transmit HIV to others.  

Previous estimates of national transmission rates are approximately 4
transmissions per 100 HIV-infected person-years.

With a small number of infected persons involved in transmission, detecting
clusters with rapid HIV transmission is critical for focusing efforts on
populations in need of the most intensive prevention interventions, where the
opportunity for impact in averting onward transmission is greatest.


Sequence analysis from an Indiana HIV outbreak demonstrated benefit of a lower
genetic distance threshold in an outbreak setting to distinguish recent
transmission.

For each cluster, the total HIV-infected person- time was calculated as the sum
of all node ages inferred from the molecular clock analysis (estimating the time
between infection and December 2015 for all but the original person in the
cluster) plus the longest node age (to account for the HIV-infected person-time
of the original person in the cluster) (Fig. 2B).

Detecting recent and rapid spread of HIV
can help prioritize prevention and early treatment for those at highest risk of
transmission


## Conclusions

The CDC used this tool to discover the following

Young Hispanic/Latino MSM were particularly represented in these clusters,
highlighting the extent of rapid transmission in this group and the importance
of ensuring that this population receives needed prevention and care services.

These rapidly growing, recent clusters were identified in regions across the
United States, and most included persons from more than one state, highlighting
the importance of conducting these analyses at a national level.


In addition, groups involved in rapidly growing clusters may differ
geographically and over time, and a strength of this approach is that it can
help identify the leading edge of transmission at a very local level, to guide
the interventions that will be most important to slow or prevent transmission in
a given area


